barbot/_pages/aboutus.md, before:

---
title: About Us
permalink: /aboutus/
---

# Meet Our Team!

_TODO: insert pictures of everyone_

_TODO: insert bios of everyone_

_TODO: also insert learning goals_

![Albert](/pie-2022-03/barbot/images/am_b.PNG)
Albert Manrique - Project Manager

Albert enjoys...

![Arturo](/pie-2022-03/barbot/images/aj_b.PNG)
Arturo Joya - Electrical Lead

Arturo enjoys...

![Eliyahu](/pie-2022-03/barbot/images/es_b.PNG)
Eliyahu Suskind - Firmware Lead

Like many other Israeli-Americans, Seattle-native Eliyahu Suskind has wanted to be an inventor for as long as he could remember. However, instead of creating water drip irrigation for plants like his ancestors, he has helped create cocktail drip irrigation for humans. Aside from his passion for STEM and inventing, Eliyahu enjoys hiking, collecting antiques and vinyl, geocaching, and Chinese/Japanese tea ceremony. Thus, next he will probably create a TeaBot.

![Lauren](/pie-2022-03/barbot/images/la_b.PNG)
Lauren Armstrong - Mechanical Lead

Lauren enjoys...

## Learning Goals

Something we all wanted to learn was about was integration. While we all were proficient in our respective engineering specialities, working on the BarBot was the first time we integrated our skills with a diverse range of other skills. At first, this communication was rough as the awkwardness of navigating this communication for the first time was exasturbated by several externalities outside of our control. However, by the end of the project, our communication and integration skills had cumulatively improved. Besides this shared goal, Albert's personal goals were often related to investigating and testing new PMing techniques, Arturo and Eliyahu - who worked closely with each other - had similar goals surrounding refactoring, power electronics, and more, and Lauren often tackled goals relating to pump design and waterproofing.

Commit message:

Update the pages These pages work in local simulation. TODO - Fill out mechanical TODO - Transfer to HTML

barbot/_pages/aboutus.md, after:

---
title: About Us
permalink: /aboutus/
---

# Meet Our Team!

![Albert](/pie-2022-03/barbot/images/am_b.PNG)
Albert Manrique - Project Manager

Albert is majoring in electrical and computer engineering. Their interests include mycology, hydroponics, and rapid prototypes. Their role in this project was of project manager and work on pump design.

![Arturo](/pie-2022-03/barbot/images/aj_b.PNG)
Arturo Joya - Electrical Lead

An enthusiastic billiards player and hardware fanatic, Arturo focused on configuring Barbot's electrical system, including but not limited to the wiring, circuit design, and circuit prototyping. He is studying to become an electrical and computer engineer. Did I mention he loves billiards? Yes? Well, he loves billiards.

![Eliyahu](/pie-2022-03/barbot/images/es_b.PNG)
Eliyahu Suskind - Firmware Lead

Like many other Israeli-Americans, Seattle-native Eliyahu Suskind has wanted to be an inventor for as long as he could remember. However, instead of creating water drip irrigation for plants like his ancestors, he has helped create cocktail drip irrigation for humans. Aside from his passion for STEM and inventing, Eliyahu enjoys hiking, collecting antiques and vinyl, geocaching, and Chinese/Japanese tea ceremony. Thus, next he will probably create a TeaBot.

![Lauren](/pie-2022-03/barbot/images/la_b.PNG)
Lauren Armstrong - Mechanical Lead

Lauren is majoring in Mechanical Engineering with an interest in design. She enjoys biology, clothing design, and industrial manufacturing. In this project, she as the lead mechanical engineer responsibble for housing and pump design.

## Learning Goals

Something we all wanted to learn was about was integration. While we all were proficient in our respective engineering specialities, working on the BarBot was the first time we integrated our skills with a diverse range of other skills. At first, this communication was rough as the awkwardness of navigating this communication for the first time was exasturbated by several externalities outside of our control. However, by the end of the project, our communication and integration skills had cumulatively improved. Besides this shared goal, Albert's personal goals were often related to investigating and testing new PMing techniques, Arturo and Eliyahu - who worked closely with each other - had similar goals surrounding refactoring, power electronics, and more, and Lauren often tackled goals relating to pump design and waterproofing.
